docs(chatbot): add component pages (#244)
siemens/ix-docs: docs/components/chat/guide.md

---
doc-type: 'tab-item'
description: 'Usage guide for chat'
---

# Chat - Usage

Chats are the outer containers that bring together the three building blocks of a conversational thread: [Chat input](../chat-input) at the bottom for composing and sending prompts, [user messages](../user-message) that record what users submitted and [AI messages](../ai-message) that display the assistant's responses.

> ![Chat anatomy](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=7962-804&t=8Rj3ErabF16Vm3lH-4)

Reviewer: Is it intentional that AI message has a smaller font than the user message?

Reviewer 2: for sure not, good catch - it was wrong already in the figma component :O

1. [User message](../user-message)
2. [AI message](../ai-message)
3. [Chat input](../chat-input)

## Dos and Don’ts

- Do use chats for conversational experiences that require users to read, review and act on messages in a thread
- Do enable auto-scroll when users are already at the latest message, not when they are reading older messages

## Behavior in context

- **Placement:** We recommend placing the chat either in the main content or in panes depending on the user goals:
  - [Main content](../content): Use when the chat is the main focus of the experience, e.g. standalone or workspace copilots
  - [Panes](../panes): Use when the chat is a secondary feature, e.g. for contextual help

## Related

- [Chat input](../chat-input)
- [User message](../user-message)

> - [AI message](../ai-message)

Reviewer: we should link to conversational design guideline: https://ix.siemens.io/docs/guidelines/conversational-design/getting-started

and maybe also have the "Siemens internal only" info to access the "SDL AI UX Guidelines" (currently, Figma only)

Reviewer 2: good idea, added

---
doc-type: 'tab-item'
description: 'Usage guide for chat'
---

# Chat - Usage

> Chats are the outer containers that bring together the three building blocks of a conversational thread: [Chat input](../chat-input) at the bottom for composing and sending prompts, [user messages](../user-message) that record what users submitted and [AI messages](../ai-message) that display the assistant's responses.

Reviewer 3: I thought this was named differently - I have to check with Sidhu. Also I think Brand is naming this also. Again let me check.

> Chats are the outer containers that bring together the three building blocks of a conversational thread: [Chat input](../chat-input) at the bottom for composing and sending prompts, [user messages](../user-message) that record what users submitted and [AI messages](../ai-message) that display the assistant's responses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Chats are the outer containers that bring together the three building blocks of a conversational thread: [Chat input](../chat-input) (the prompt input field) at the bottom for writing and sending prompts, [user messages](../user-message) that show what users send and [AI messages](../ai-message) that display the AI responses.
```

Reviewer 2: Again didn't add the prompt aspect but incorporated the rest of your feedback

![Chat anatomy](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=7962-804&t=8Rj3ErabF16Vm3lH-4)

1. [User message](../user-message)
2. [AI message](../ai-message)
3. [Chat input](../chat-input)

> ## Dos and Don’ts

Reviewer 3: this should go below behaviour??

Reviewer 2: true!

> - Do use chats for conversational experiences that require users to read, review and act on messages in a thread

Reviewer 3: again the wording needs to be checked with Sidhu and Brand

Reviewer 2: Remove - basically just blabla
```suggestion
```

> - Do enable auto-scroll when users are already at the latest message, not when they are reading older messages

Reviewer 3: is the jump to bottom on the components?

Reviewer 2: Nope, it means the following: Let's say the AI is currently writing their response, and the chat history is already lengthy.

If my scroll position is currently somewhere at the beginning of the conversation -> the app should not automatically scroll down to the AI message
If my scroll position is at the latest message -> the app should automatically scroll down to the end of the flow for me to read the response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do enable auto-scroll when users are reading the current response, not when they are reading previous responses
```

## Behavior in context

- **Placement:** We recommend placing the chat either in the main content or in panes depending on the user goals:

>   - [Main content](../content): Use when the chat is the main focus of the experience, e.g. standalone or workspace copilots

Reviewer 3: noone really understands the difference between standalone or workspace - and I think Brand is also trying to name these and not sure Sidhus terms will be used.

Reviewer 2: So any better idea?

Reviewer 2: ...I leave it for now (for consistency with the Figma file) and will update once there's a better recommendation :)

---
doc-type: 'tab-item'
description: 'Usage guide for chat.'
---

# Chat - Usage

Chats are the outer containers that bring together the three building blocks of a conversational thread: [Chat input](../chat-input) at the bottom for writing and sending prompts, [user messages](../user-message) that show what users submitted and [AI messages](../ai-message) that display AI responses.

![Chat anatomy](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=7962-804&t=8Rj3ErabF16Vm3lH-4)

1. [User message](../user-message)
2. [AI message](../ai-message)
3. [Chat input](../chat-input)

## Behavior in context

> - **Placement:** We recommend placing the chat either in the main content or in panes depending on the user goals:

Reviewer: do not need the first level bullet point if it is only "Placement"

Reviewer 2: Added a note about responsiveness (=max-width)
